 Field Name Status Explanation
0 	Code value 	normative 	Code value in 4-digit hexadecimal format.
1 	Character name 	normative 	These names match exactly the names published in Chapter 7 of the Unicode Standard, Version 2.0, except for the two additional characters.
2 	General category 	normative / informative
(see below) 	This is a useful breakdown into various "character types" which can be used as a default categorization in implementations. See below for a brief explanation.
3 	Canonical combining classes 	normative 	The classes used for the Canonical Ordering Algorithm in the Unicode Standard. These classes are also printed in Chapter 4 of the Unicode Standard.
4 	Bidirectional category 	normative 	See the list below for an explanation of the abbreviations used in this field. These are the categories required by the Bidirectional Behavior Algorithm in the Unicode Standard. These categories are summarized in Chapter 3 of the Unicode Standard.
5 	Character decomposition mapping 	normative 	In the Unicode Standard, not all of the mappings are full (maximal) decompositions. Recursive application of look-up for decompositions will, in all cases, lead to a maximal decomposition. The decomposition mappings match exactly the decomposition mappings published with the character names in the Unicode Standard.
6 	Decimal digit value 	normative 	This is a numeric field. If the character has the decimal digit property, as specified in Chapter 4 of the Unicode Standard, the value of that digit is represented with an integer value in this field
7 	Digit value 	normative 	This is a numeric field. If the character represents a digit, not necessarily a decimal digit, the value is here. This covers digits which do not form decimal radix forms, such as the compatibility superscript digits
8 	Numeric value 	normative 	This is a numeric field. If the character has the numeric property, as specified in Chapter 4 of the Unicode Standard, the value of that character is represented with an integer or rational number in this field. This includes fractions as, e.g., "1/5" for U+2155 VULGAR FRACTION ONE FIFTH Also included are numerical values for compatibility characters such as circled numbers.
8 	Mirrored 	normative 	If the character has been identified as a "mirrored" character in bidirectional text, this field has the value "Y"; otherwise "N". The list of mirrored characters is also printed in Chapter 4 of the Unicode Standard.
10 	Unicode 1.0 Name 	informative 	This is the old name as published in Unicode 1.0. This name is only provided when it is significantly different from the Unicode 3.0 name for the character.
11 	10646 comment field 	informative 	This is the ISO 10646 comment field. It is in parantheses in the 10646 names list.
12 	Uppercase mapping 	informative 	Upper case equivalent mapping. If a character is part of an alphabet with case distinctions, and has an upper case equivalent, then the upper case equivalent is in this field. See the explanation below on case distinctions. These mappings are always one-to-one, not one-to-many or many-to-one. This field is informative.
13 	Lowercase mapping 	informative 	Similar to Uppercase mapping
14 	Titlecase mapping 	informative 	Similar to Uppercase mapping




Field 2 - Categories

Abbr.   Description
Lu 	Letter, Uppercase
Ll 	Letter, Lowercase
Lt 	Letter, Titlecase
Mn 	Mark, Non-Spacing
Mc 	Mark, Spacing Combining
Me 	Mark, Enclosing
Nd 	Number, Decimal Digit
Nl 	Number, Letter
No 	Number, Other
Zs 	Separator, Space
Zl 	Separator, Line
Zp 	Separator, Paragraph
Cc 	Other, Control
Cf 	Other, Format
Cs 	Other, Surrogate
Co 	Other, Private Use
Cn 	Other, Not Assigned (no characters in the file have this property)

Informative Categories
Abbr.   Description
Lm 	Letter, Modifier
Lo 	Letter, Other
Pc 	Punctuation, Connector
Pd 	Punctuation, Dash
Ps 	Punctuation, Open
Pe 	Punctuation, Close
Pi 	Punctuation, Initial quote (may behave like Ps or Pe depending on usage)
Pf 	Punctuation, Final quote (may behave like Ps or Pe depending on usage)
Po 	Punctuation, Other
Sm 	Symbol, Math
Sc 	Symbol, Currency
Sk 	Symbol, Modifier
So 	Symbol, Other


FIELD 4 - 	

Value   Description
0: 	Spacing, split, enclosing, reordrant, and Tibetan subjoined
1: 	Overlays and interior
7: 	Nuktas
8: 	Hiragana/Katakana voicing marks
9: 	Viramas
10: 	Start of fixed position classes
199: 	End of fixed position classes
200: 	Below left attached
202: 	Below attached
204: 	Below right attached
208: 	Left attached (reordrant around single base character)
210: 	Right attached
212: 	Above left attached
214: 	Above attached
216: 	Above right attached
218: 	Below left
220: 	Below
222: 	Below right
224: 	Left (reordrant around single base character)
226: 	Right
228: 	Above left
230: 	Above
232: 	Above right
233: 	Double below
234: 	Double above
240: 	Below (iota subscript)
